In BitonicArray or Mountain Arrays
We know that elements will be in increasing order till
a particular index and after that they will be decreasing
That is there will be two parts in these arrays
The first part will be in ascending order and the
second part will be in descending order
The peak element will have a smaller number before and
after it
Keeping this in mind let it's built a logic using
binary search technique
As usual
Let us point start to the first element in the
an end to the last element of the array in each
iteration
Let's find the middle element and check whether it is
a peak element if the mid element has a smaller
number before and after it
We have found a peak element here
65 has a smaller element 58 after it but has
a greater number 76 before it
If we do not have the peak element at mid what
can we do We know that peak element will be
present as last element in the first part that is
ascending order part
So check where is the current mid element present first
part or second part and adjust start or end pointers
in such a way that we move closer to the
end of first
Part check if element at mid is greater than
the element before it at mid minus one if yes
then the current mid is present in ascending order part
here array of mid 65 is not greater than its
previous element array of mid minus 1 76
Thus the current mid is presenting in descending portion of
the array
So let us adjust end to mid and that
is three in next iteration mid
is one that his array of 1 12 has a
smaller number before it but does not have a smaller
number after it
Thus 12 is not a peak element
Next check
If array of mid is greater than an array of mid
minus 1 12 is greater than an array of 08 it
means mid 12 is present in ascending portion of the
so let us adjust start to mid plus one that
is two now start is two an end is three
Thus mid is two an array of mid is 76
76 is greater than it's next Element 65 its previous
element 12
Thus 76 is the peak element so we can return
mid which holds index two.